elephants over there. Nelson Oleraiya
drives us through his
community wildlife conservation area on
the edge of the Maasai Mara Game
Reserve. Five years ago, this land was an
overgrazed dust
bowl where people had put up fences that
blocked wildlife from their
traditional migratory routes. Community
elders had a big idea.
They took down the fences, pulled their
land, and now live side by side
with wildlife. The community was facing a
freefall
in loss of land. So when we came in, we
had to get rid
of 25 kilometers long lines of fences.
It's
high season here for tourists. Many are
heading to Maasai Mara to watch
the great wildebeest migration. Millions
of animals come from the
Serengeti Game Reserve in Tanzania to
breed and graze.
But for many years, local communities have
often been excluded
from the tourist dollars. So the Nashulai
Conservancy
decided to do things differently. We were
wary about
approaching those institutional funders
that
funds fortress conservation, because then
they will
change our narrative. And we wanted to
pioneer
a model that is community-led. Their
vision
is ambitious. They want to create one of
the longest wildlife corridors
from Maasai Mara through other reserves
and onto the Serengeti.
People who live in areas like this one say
they want to be more
involved in conservation efforts. And
that's why it's so important
for them to have this community
conservancies. And they are
thriving. Jack Olemoniko says his family
set aside
land for the protected area. Living
standard.
Our standard of living has improved. We've
put aside money for our children's
education through a bursary fund. When
times are hard,
especially during a drought, community
members dip into their contributions to
help provide food and other basic
commodities.
Tourists often stop over at the village to
sample the traditional
way of life. This is not the only
community conservancy in Kenya,
but people here believe that Nashulai has
set the pace for other conservation
initiatives, which they say can only be
good news.
Catherine Soy, Al Jazeera, Nashulai
Conservancy, Kenya.
Make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al Jazeera.